# Introduction-to-SED-and-unix-type-signal
CS 69001: Computing Lab I Assignment – 4A: Introduction to SED Introduction: After completing the last two assignments on command shell, you are familiar with how a Unix type shell works. In this assignment you’ll get more exposure on another Unix filter for file processing named sed, that process a file based on regular expressions. In this assignment, we’ll work with the sed command that is used to replace or delete some contents in a file based on regular expressions. Objective: To understand pattern matching using sed. Description: Integrate the following things in your mini command shell. 1. SED : a. Substitution: [20 Marks] The format for the substitute command is as follows: sed  ‘[optional­regex/]s/regex­pattern/regex­replacement/ [flags]’ file_name The flags can be any of the following: n Replace n th instance of “pattern” with “replacement” g Replace all instances of “pattern” with “replacement” Regular expression (regex): A regular expression may be simple string or followed by one of several repetitions. It should support the following operators: ? The preceding item is optional and matched at most once. * The preceding item will be matched zero or more times.+ The preceding item will be matched one or more times. Example 1: >cat file the black cat was chased by the brown dog >mysed 's/black/white/g' file the white cat was chased by the brown dog Example 2: >cat file the black cat was chased by the brown dog. the black cat was not chased by the brown dog >mysed '/not/s/black/white/g' file the black cat was chased by the brown dog. the white cat was not chased by the brown dog. Here, the substitution is only applied to lines matching the regular expression ‘not’. Hence it is not applied to the first line. b. Delete: [20 Marks] The format for the substitute command is as follows: mysed [line­number]d It should delete that exact line. mysed [line­number1, line­number2]d It should delete line-number1 and line-number2. mysed [line­number1...line­number2]d It should delete all the lines from line-number1 to line-number2. mysed \[line­number1...line­number2]d It should delete all the lines except from line-number1 to line-number2. This do not delete option should work for previously mentioned formats also.Example 1: >cat file line 1 (one) line 2 (two) line 3 (three) line 4 (four) >mysed [1,2]d file line 3 (three) line 4 (four) >cat file2 line 1 (one) line 2 (two) line 3 (three) line 4 (four) >mysed [3]d file2 line 1 (one) line 2 (two) line 4 (four) >cat file1 line 1 (one) line 2 (two) line 3 (three) line 4 (four) > mysed [1...3]d file line 4 (four) >cat file3 line 1 (one) line 2 (two) line 3 (three) line 4 (four) > mysed \[1...3]d file line 1 (one) line 2 (two) line 3 (three)Assignment – 4B: Introduction to UNIX Type Signals Objective: These assignments will give you an idea about how UNIX Signals work. 1. Write a C program to create a user-defined signal (SIGUSR1). On receiving the signal, the program should give some appropriate output to say that the signal is received properly. [output should be like “SIGUSR1 Received”]. You can test your code using the following command: “kill –USR1 pid” where pid is process ID of the program. [20 Marks] 2. Normally, on pressing “crtl + c” in terminal, it terminates the current process executing. Write a C program that will not respond on pressing “ctrl + c” but it will quit on pressing “ctrl + \”. [10 Marks] 3. Write a C program to do the following things: a. On pressing “ctrl + c” first time: create a file called “temp” with a message“Interrupt” in the same file. b. On pressing “crtl + c” second time: it should print “I am taking rest now”. c. On pressing “ctrl +c” third time: it should do the default work of “ctrl + c”. Note: Do not use count to achieve this. [10 Marks] Deliverables: It is mandatory that your code should follow proper indentation and commenting. The C programs with name as “myprogram_rollno.c” along with the makefile should be submitted in a compressed tar file format with the name rollno_a4.tar.gz . There will be deductions in the awarded marks, if you fail to do so. All the source c files should remain in the same directory. You should submit a report mentioning all the signals and your findings about those. Happy Learning!
